Undoubtedly, studying in Germany is the best experience you can get. However, one of the significant requirements to study there is getting a German student visa. For this, most students need a Germany blocked account. This account shows you have sufficient resources to fund yourself. Without it, your visa application will be rejected. According to the latest policies and updates, all international students applying for a German student visa need to show proof of around 11,904 euros in their blocked account for the first year.

The maximum money you can withdraw every month is around 992 euros. For those who are from outside the EEA or EU and are planning to stay in Germany for a more extended period (for studies), a blocked account in Germany is a must-have. This blocked account confirms you can cover your living costs while studying, making it an essential part of the visa application process.

What is a Block Account in Germany?
A Germany block account is a type of bank account where international students deposit a fixed amount. It is particularly created for international students, au pairs, job seekers, or those who plan to live in Germany for a longer period.

In addition, a block account amount for Germany is essential because it proves you have adequate money to cover your living costs while you are staying in the country. Showing financial stability through a Germany block account amount is a primary requirement for visa approval.

Who Needs a Blocked Account in Germany?
Those who are not from a European Union or Schengen country and require a German visa will likely need a Germany block account. This applies to the following visas mentioned below:

Student visa
Training or apprenticeship visa
Visa for recognizing foreign qualifications
Job-seeker visa
Au-pair visa
Germany Opportunity Card (Chancenkarte)
Visa for learning the German language
Mandatory Germany Blocked Account Amount
All international students have to deposit around €11,904 as their Germany blocked account amount for international students 2024 – 2025. Students can withdraw 992 euros every month for twelve months to cover their living expenses.

Moreover, Germany blocked account amount depends on the BAföG rate (financial aid standard for students in Germany). It is the minimum amount you should have to prove you have sufficient money to live there. Remember that you cannot withdraw more than €992 from your German blocked account amount, unless you deposit more amount than this required money.

Where Can I Open a Blocked Account in Germany?
Some of the providers to open your block account for Germany are as follows:

Fintiba
Studley
Expatrio
Coracle
 ICICI Bank
Drop Money
Most people often ask: Which bank is best for blocked accounts in Germany? It is also possible to open an account and deposit the Germany block account amount directly with a German bank, but not every branch provides this service, which can make the process more complex.

However, some German banks that offer blocked accounts are mentioned below:

Targobank
Postbank
Deutsche Kreditbank (DKB)
Volksbank
Sparkasse
Commerzbank
HypoVereinsbank
Documents Required for Blocked Account for Germany
The list of documents needed for Germany blocked account is as follows:

A valid passport
ID card
Evidence of where the money comes from. Few providers might ask for bank statements to know how you got the funds.
Evidence of admission to a German university (if required)
The application form
How Can I Open my Blocked Bank Account?
You need to open a blocked account before applying for your residence permit or German visa, which means you will usually have to do this while you are still in your own country. The steps for opening a blocked account in Germany can vary depending on the provider you pick, but in general, you will need to:

First, visit your local German consulate or embassy to confirm which kind of blocked account and how much money you will have to deposit.
Next, choose a provider to open your Germany blocked account and begin your application process. Many providers allow you to do this online.
After your application is processed and you get your BIC/IBAN, transfer the required amount of money into your account.
Once you have deposited, you will get a confirmation statement. You need to show this statement to the German embassy when applying for your student visa.
Then, you just need to wait for the embassy to process and finalize your visa application.
Costs for a Germany Block Account 2024
The providers of a blocked account charge a fee for providing services. The costs can vary, but here are the average fees you will need to pay:

Expatrio – 109 euros (It includes 49 euros setup charges and five euros each month for twelve months)
Coracle – 99 euros
Fintiba – 147.80 euros (It consists of 89 euros setup charges and €4.90 every month for twelve months)
Conclusion
If you are thinking of studying in Germany and you are from outside Europe, you will need to get a German student visa. To get the visa, you must have a blocked account in Germany. Without this blocked account, your visa application might be denied, and you will not be able to study in Germany. It is a particular bank account in the country where your amount is locked for the entire time you stay in Germany. Moreover, this amount serves as evidence that you have enough resources to fund yourself and live comfortably while studying abroad. I hope the above guide will be helpful to you.

FAQs
Can I open a bank account in Germany if I don’t live there?
Yes, you can open a blocked account in Germany if you are from outside the EU and are applying for a German student visa. You can open from your home country.

Is blocked account necessary in Germany?
Yes, if you are an international student willing to study in Germany, having a blocked account is a must. It is a required step to show that you have sufficient money to fund yourself.

How to withdraw money from blocked account Germany?
You cannot withdraw the total amount from the blocked account all at once. However, the fixed amount can be withdrawn every month to cover your living expenses.

How much money is required for a blocked account in Germany?
The minimum amount you need to have in your blocked account for a German student visa is 11,904 euros for the whole year, which is 992 euros every month.