Pursuing higher education in the United Kingdom is the dream of thousands of international students. Not just studying in the UK opens new job opportunities for you but will also help in your personal growth. However, while meeting all requirements to get admission to your chosen university, the majority of students face one major issue, and that is proving their English language proficiency through a widely accepted test like IELTS or PTE. If you are one of them facing the same issue, let me share good news with you.

There are many universities MOI accepted universities in UK that allow students to study their favorite program. It means that they can apply to these institutions without submitting proof of English language proficiency. Those who are interested in applying to a low-cost university in UK for international students, book your consultation today with Dunya Consultants and increase your chances of admission.

What is MOI for UK?
The MOI full form in UK visa is Medium of Instruction. The Medium of Instruction is an authorized document given by the previous college or university of students and proves that their previous education was completed in English.

Furthermore, students who come from a nation where English is not the first language of instruction but have finished the most of their past education in English can consider the option of choosing MOI based university in UK.

List of the UK MOI Accepted Universities
Are you searching for the UK cheap university for international student that accepts MOI? If yes, then you are at the right place. Here are some of the best private as well as public universities private as well as public universities in UK that accept MOI that accept MOI for UK instead of IELTS or PTE:

Sr. No	UK Universities
1	University of Law (U Law)
2	University of Hertfordshire
3	University of South Wales
4	University of Suffolk
5	Nottingham Trent University
6	Bangor University
7	Leeds Metropolitan University (LMU)
8	Birmingham City University
9	University of Portsmouth
10	University of Stirling
11	University of Wolverhampton
12	University of Essex
13	Cardiff Metropolitan University
14	University of Central Lancashire
15	University of Sunderland
16	St. Mary’s University
17	Edinburgh Napier University (ENU)
Eligibility Criteria for MOI Based University in UK
If you are looking for the cheapest university in UK that accepts MOI letter as an alternative to PTE or IELTS, you should fulfill specific criteria fixed by the UKVI (UK Visa and Immigration) authorities. Let’s have a look at the eligibility criteria below:

You should have completed your higher or secondary education in a college/university where English was the primary language of teaching.
You should have completed your studies recently, usually within the period of two to five years.
The UKVI (UK Visa and Immigration) will verify the educational institution where the student has completed his previous education as if they are providing a high-quality English language.
The period of your studies in English should be enough to prove your proficiency in the English language.
How to Get an MOI Letter or Certificate?
Your previous educational institution will generally grant a MOI letter. It can be your school, secondary college, or the university where you got your undergraduate degree. The steps to get MOI to study at a UK cheap university for international students.

Contact the admissions department or registrar’s office of your previous institution.
Tell them about your requirement for a Medium of Instruction (MOI) certificate. Universities might have particular application forms for this.
They might ask for some additional documents, like graduation certificates or transcripts, to check your academic background. So, provide them if needed.
You may need to pay some processing fees and wait for some time to get the certificate.
Conclusion
Students who are interested to study in the UK without taking the IELTS or PTE can apply for MOI accepted universities in UK. There are various universities in UK for international students that accept Medium of Instruction as evidence of English proficiency. These universities make the application process much smoother for all students who have studied before in English. In addition, we have mentioned the list of MOI accepted universities in UK to make the decision easier for you. If you still have any queries or want to get more information regarding studying in the UK, reach out to our team at Dunya Consultants!

FAQs
Can I apply for a UK student visa with MOI?
Yes, if your UK university accepts MOI as proof of English language proficiency, you can apply for a UK student visa.

Can I get admission in postgraduate courses with MOI for UK?
Students can apply for postgraduate programs with a Medium of Instruction (MOI). It totally depends on the course and the university you select.

What are some of the best MOI accepted universities in UK?
Some of the most popular UK universities that accept MOI are University of Hertfordshire, University of Portsmouth, Cardiff Metropolitan University, etc.

Does a university with January intake in UK accept MOI?
There are some UK universities with January intake that accept the MOI certificate as a replacement for IELTS.