Students who are planning to pursue their higher education in an international country have to meet all requirements. One of the most important requirements is to prove their English language proficiency. There are different types of tests available that you can take before applying to universities abroad. However, the most common and highly accepted test is IELTS (International English Language Testing System). Every year, thousands of Pakistani students take this exam and the most searched thing on the internet regarding this is the IELTS test fee in Pakistan.

Furthermore, you need to get the required IELTS score to get admission successfully in your selected university. If you are worried about IELTS test preparation, you can either visit Dunya Consultants physically or can also take online classes. We have expert instructors at our every office branch who make sure you master the English language and get a good score on the final examination.

What is the IELTS Full Form?
The IELTS long form is the International English Language Testing System. It is a standardized test conducted every year to assess the English language expertise of international non-native English speakers.

Moreover, IELTS is commonly accepted by universities, immigration officers, employers, and even professional bodies throughout the world. This international English language testing system evaluates four major language skills including reading, writing, listening, and speaking.

IELTS Format and Sections
There are two types of IELTS in general that are General Training and Academic. There is a difference between academic IELTS and general IELTS as mentioned below:

IELTS General Training
IELTS for General training is basically for non-academic purposes. It is taken for high school admissions, work experience programs, and also immigration applications. This format assesses English skills for relevant students and people.

IELTS Academic
IELTS Academic is specifically made for students. It is used to apply for undergraduate as well as postgraduate programs. All questions in this test are framed designed for students willing to pursue higher education from an international country.

In addition, both test types have four sections as given below:

Listening (30 mins) – In this section, students will get to listen to four recordings. After hearing, they need to answer all the questions related to that.
Reading (60 mins) – In this part, you will have to read three lengthy passages. Then, you will have to answer different types of questions to prove how properly you have gone through the passages.
Speaking (11-14 mins) – Students will have a direct discussion with an examiner. He will ask them questions about different topics and they will have to discuss and answer.
Writing (60 mins) – This section contains two tasks. The first task is to write a description while the second task includes writing an essay with proper reasons.
IELTS Test Fee in Pakistan
The IELTS fee in Pakistan is the same for both IELTS formats (General Training and Academic). Here is the breakdown of IELTS test exam fee:

Paper Bases	IELTS Fee (in USD)	IELTS Fee (in PKR)
Computer-Based Module	205 USD	Rs. 57,400
Paper-Based Module	229 USD	Rs. 63,800
Computer-Based UKVI Test	185 USD	Rs. 51,700
Paper-Based UKVI Test	197 USD	Rs. 55,000
IELTS Life Skills Test	143 USD	Rs. 50,000
Documents Required to Register for IELTS Examination
To book for IELTS British Council Pakistan, students will need their original passport or CNIC as evidence of their identity. Also, there is no fixed age limit for the applicants to register for the IELTS test. However, it is highly suggested that students above sixteen years old should book for the test.

Conclusion
To get admission in any international country, every Pakistani student needs to prove their English language proficiency. The standardized international English language testing system exam used to assess English proficiency is IELTS. Students will have to obtain a required band in their IELTS examination in order to get admission in any certified institution. In addition, all details regarding the IELTS examination fee in Pakistan has already been mentioned earlier. If you are looking for the best IELTS preparation center, look no further than Dunya Consultants. We have the best instructors possible!

FAQs
What are IELTS test charges for Paper-Based UKVI Test?
The IELTS reservation fee for Paper-Based UKVI Test is around 197 USD or Rs. 55,000. You can register for this test easily.

What is a satisfactory IELTS test band score?
Most universities accept a 5.5 or 6 band score to verify English language proficiency of students.

Can I prepare for IELTS at home?
Yes, you can read English books and newspapers or can also listen to English audiobooks. However, it is recommended to take proper classes for IELTS test preparation.

How much time is given to candidates for IELTS?
The total time given to students is around two hours twenty-five minutes. In this part, you have to cover all four sections.