Statement of Purpose for Scholarship
Whenever you hear the terms “statement of purpose” and “scholarship” these do not sound quite unfamiliar. However, a “statement of purpose for scholarship” brings you to reflect on what it means and how you should write it. It is a trend in the new generation and the need of the hour that people are looking for opportunities to study abroad specifically in Pakistan for various reasons. Studying abroad requires you to write a “Statement of purpose for scholarship”.

This is also called an SOP for scholarship which refers to an essay that reflects your journey, highlighting all the educational track records, reasons to avail of the scholarship, experiences, career goals, motivation for studying, and what are your reasons for selecting that particular institute and country. The basic reason to write down a statement of purpose is to display your motivation, passion, and purpose for studying.

A General SOP VS an SOP for Scholarship
General SOP	SOP for Scholarship
A statement that is written to display your interest in a particular program.	A statement to display the reasons for getting the scholarship.
The purpose of writing it is to fulfill a requirement of an application process.	Its purpose is to communicate that how availing the scholarship will help the student to achieve his goals.
The major focus of this is to explain the reason for selecting the reason for selecting a particular program.	The major focus is to explain the financial circumstances and sustainability for the scholarship of that applicant.
SOP
Statement of Purpose for scholarship in Bachelor’s, Master’s, or PhD program:
Getting scholarships for Pakistani students at the bachelor’s, master’s, and PhD levels have different and unique requirements. As these are three different levels of study, therefore, the intensity of requirements to be eligible for scholarships at all three levels increases. At the bachelor’s level, most of the universities don’t require any professional experience and thus, the intensity level is quite low.

However, gaining a scholarship for Pakistani students is more or less based on the profile and educational background of the applicant. The basic profile of the student plays an important role in gaining the scholarship. At the master’s level, a statement for the scholarship for Pakistani students requires professional experience, research work in the field, the importance of scholarship for career goals, and clarity about being a deserving student for the particular institute must be provided.

When it comes to the PhD or doctoral programs, the applicant must convey how they can contribute to the research department of the institute and their thoughts about the latest research trends in the field. Conveying competitive thoughts is necessary to gain a scholarship for the PhD level study.

Scholarships for Pakistani students at all three levels require some specifications according to the given guidelines and the official guidelines provided must be followed to ensure that the statement of purpose stands out among the others.

A formal Format to follow
While writing the statement of purpose for a scholarship for a particular institute and a specific country, it is highly important to follow the official guidelines given. Following the official guidelines properly increases the chances of being selected for the scholarship. However, the most basic pattern for writing a statement of purpose for scholarship is given below:

Basic Profile
Financial status
Sustainability for scholarship
Educational background
Professional track record
Linking the previous record with the chosen field
Reasons to opt for a particular program
Short-term and long-term goals
Reasons to opt for a particular institution
Reasons to study in a particular country
Career aspiration globally and in the home country
Tips and Tricks to make the SOP seen by the recruiter:
It is an important question of how should one make his/her statement among thousands of statements of purpose for scholarship to stand out and be seen by the recruiter. To make it stand out among the rest of the statements of purpose you must consider the following tips and tricks:

·         Personalized Statement of purpose:
A statement of purpose can only stand out among loads of SOPs when it is a personalized one. The generic information in the statement of purpose for scholarship doesn’t please the recruiter. They need to know about your life journey and how you explain your story in a way that no one can ever imagine.

It is you and your journey that the recruiter wants to know. So, making a statement of purpose for scholarship to be selected you have to incorporate the personalized factor in your statement.

·         Knowing the Institute:
While writing a statement of purpose for scholarship it is of great significance to know about the institute that you are applying to. By having thorough information about the various aspects of the institute and the faculty you can connect with their requirements and needs in a much better way.

By knowing what the institute requires from the applicants, the chances for being selected increase. However, this is the most common mistake made by most of the applicants for the scholarships they don’t bother to look into the details of the institute they are applying to and ultimately fail to get the scholarship.

·         Professional Tone
It is important to personalize the statement of purpose to avail the chance but hyper-personalization must be avoided. Hyper-personalization can lead to an unprofessional tone which can cause a negative impact.

To maintain a professional tone, things need to be communicated and delivered professionally so that the audience feels engaged and looks for the benefits of recruiting you to their institute.

·         Prove your eligibility
If an institute is giving you an admission and taking up all your expenses it is important to prove that you are an eligible candidate for it. Why they should invest in you? Provide them with such proof and flaunt your expertise in a way that they are forced to accept your statement of purpose for scholarship. Show that you deserve to be selected and that they are investing in you for a good reason.

FAQs
How long my statement of purpose should be?
The minimum number of words in a statement of purpose is 900 to 1000 and 1-3 pages. However, it depends more on the requirements of the university. To make it unique try to keep it concise and to the point.

Should any extra-curricular activities and expertise be added to the statement of purpose?
Yes, adding habits, expertise, and involvement in extra-curricular activities will make your statement of purpose more personalized.

Is it important to mention the research interests in the statement?
It is highly important to add your research interests in the statement of purpose for scholarship to display that you are highly intrigued by the field and want to excel in it.

Which scholarships are available for Pakistani Students?
There are a variety of scholarships that are offered internationally including scholarships for Pakistani students. The academic based scholarships, average performance based scholarships, athletic scholarships, and scholarships for women are all the categories in which the scholarships for Pakistani students can also be looked for.

Conclusion:
This article works as a guide to provide the students who are in need of scholarships to make their statement of purpose stand out for the recruiter. It explains the do’s and don’ts of writing a unique statement of purpose for scholarship and will help the study seekers be make a position for themselves in their required program at their desired institute.

also visit dunya course finder for select different courses