
Why We Are Unique
Dunya Consultants is one of the best education consultants in Pakistan. We stand among the top study abroad consultants and provide detailed guidance on study abroad programs to students.
With its head office in Lahore, Dunya Consultants has branches in over 14 cities across the country and a team of more than 200 counselors.
We are proud to have around 250 ambassadors working with us internationally and have partnered with 30 top educational institutions in Pakistan and more than 20 foreign universities.
Since the student visa process can be quite challenging, that’s why our Education Consultants are trained enough to provide personalized support to every student so that they can have a smooth and hassle-free experience.
As a growing study abroad consultants’ firm, we help students in visa interview preparations and guide them throughout the student visa application process.
So, what are you waiting for? Get your consultancy booked with the best visa consultant in Lahore – Dunya Consultants today and get answers to your education queries!
Explore Service Today!

We Serve Around The Globe
10+
Countries
14 +
Branches
98 %
Success Rate
2,000 +
Visa Processing
Study Abroad
Let's Start Today
Start Your Journey With Us
Dunya Consultants: Your trusted partner for seamless study visa solutions abroad. From application to arrival, we ensure a smooth transition to your academic journey.

Get Started Now
How We Work
Our Admission Process
Our admission process includes an online application, required documents, and an interview. We evaluate candidates holistically and notify successful applicants promptly.
Get All Details
Reach out to us to get all details and guidance for studying abroad from our expert education consultants.

University Selection
Choose the right university for abroad education according to your choice.

Meet Requirements
Our professionals will guide you to meet all requirements for study abroad programs.

Apply To University
Apply to your selected foreign university. Our study abroad consultants streamline the student visa application process for a successful submission.

Interview Preparation
Pass your international university interview with the help of our education counsellor.

Visa Granted
Finally, your visa is granted. Get ready to travel to studying abroad!

Why Choose
Dunya Consultants
We offer free consultation to help students in planning their study abroad journey. Our abroad education consultants provide guidance on selecting the right university and preparing your student visa application.

Our expert provides personalized support to make your study overseas experience stress-free and successful. We understand your goals and needs and give the best advice according to your situation.



Umer Farooq
CEO
CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER
I'm Umer Farooq
Hi, myself Umer Farooq! I’m the Chief Executive Officer (CEO) of Dunya Consultants, an Educational Consultancy Company located in Pakistan. I am also the founder of XCON Technologies and a member of the Board of Directors of Dunya Group of Companies. I have completed my Graduation (Bachelor’s in Science) from University of the Punjab and did my Masters from University of Engineering and Technology, Lahore.
Meet Umer Farooq