Universities in Turkey are quite popular worldwide in terms of best education and modern teaching methods. Every year, hundreds of students from different countries apply to these universities because of their wonderful educational reputation and infrastructure prepared to carry out advanced research. However, remember that higher education in the country is not very different from the European Union Bologna system and is categorized into three levels (Bachelor’s, Master’s, and PhD).

The government of Turkey always keeps a fixed number of seats for international students every year for each program. Furthermore, after choosing the university of your choice for studying in Turkey, make sure to check all the requirements to apply for a specific program. Those unaware of the fitting process can contact our expert team at Dunya Consultants and get their confusion cleared.

Best Turkey Universities for International Students
In Turkey, the majority of the students are searching to get admission to universities with good status and low cost to continue their higher studies. If you are one of them, there is no need to worry. In addition to some high-end medical universities, there are several cheapest universities in Turkey for international students as well. Below given is the list of the top medical universities in Turkey:

Sr No.	University Name	Located In
1	Atlas University	Istanbul, Hamidiye District
2	Istinye University	Istanbul
3	Altinbas University	Istanbul (Bakırköy, Bağcılar, Şişli)
4	Beykent University	Istanbul (Büyükçekmece Campus)
5	Aydin University	Istanbul (Halit Aydın Florya Yerleşkesi)
6	Bahcesehir University	Istanbul (Bosporus)
Atlas University
Located in Istanbul, Turkey, Atlas University pays massive attention to medical departments and programs. The main campus of this university is known as the Vadi Campus and is situated in a very central location (Istanbul’s Hamidiye District). Furthermore, this institute was founded by the Turkish Balkan Education Culture and Health Foundation in 2018.

Its mission is to raise students who can make prominent contributions to the medical world. Their training program encourages individuals to educate people-oriented clinicians and doctors who can prioritize all health problems and provide practical solutions to deal with them. Atlas University also has a Medical Faculty Hospital called Medicine Hospital in Istanbul Bağcılar.

Istinye University
In 2015, Istinye University was founded by the 21st Century Anatolian Foundation. International students want to study medicine in Turkey, İstinye University is a no. 1 choice among them. The Faculty of Medicine at this university allows students to get a high-quality education as well as prepares them for a successful medical career.

The worldwide popularity of Istinye University is due to its modern facilities, beautiful campus, and diverse range of academic programs. Furthermore, the tuition charges for international students at this university can be between $4320 and $21600 yearly for the medical program, while the tuition charges for the Master’s program are $5400 yearly.

Altinbas university
In 2008, Altınbaş University was founded in Istanbul, Turkey as Istanbul Kemerburgaz University. In 2017, its name was changed to its current name. It is regarded as one of the top private universities in the country and is famous for offering medical and engineering programs. The institute has around three campuses located in Bakırköy, Bağcılar, and Şişli.

Moreover, it has over 5000 international students from eighty-nine different nations. Altınbaş University is home to 3 graduate schools, nine undergraduate schools, and two vocational schools. Currently, it offers approximately 34 associate degree programs, 30 bachelor’s degree programs, 6 PhD programs, and 28 master’s degree programs.

Beykent University
Another name on the list of best universities in Istanbul is Beykent University. The university offers various courses in English, Russian combined, and Turkish. Its Faculty of Medicine aims to train the best doctors to work according to scientific developments and conduct their research.

Additionally, Beykent University was founded by Adem Çelik (Beykent Educational Foundation), and since then, it has had public legal status. The university started its educational journey in 1997 – 1998 on Büyükçekmece Campus. It provides education on four well-furnished campuses situated in central areas of Istanbul.

Aydin university
Istanbul Aydın University was created on 18th May 2007. It is a private university made as an extension of its ancestor (the Vocational College of Anadolu BIL). The Faculty of Medicine of this university is a fantastic faculty that supports clinical care, education, and research missions.

Furthermore, the seminars & lectures of the pre-clinical phase are given in English at the campus called “Halit Aydın Florya Yerleşkesi.” The advanced field laboratories situated in the Basic Medical Sciences Laboratory complex of its faculty are created to give full advantage to each student. Also, the institute is a technology center of approximately 175,000 m².

Bahcesehir University
Bahçeşehir University (BAU) is situated in Istanbul around the Bosporus. Its medicine is the 1st-ever Turkish faculty of medicine. From the start, the university has aimed to manufacture a research center for scientific research and has succeeded in this mission.

 Furthermore, the education system of this institute will provide the best opportunities to students with an advanced structure. The university has one school of languages, eight faculties, and 2 vocational schools. More than 1700 students are currently studying at the university (undergraduate & graduate students).

Conclusion
One of the best things about Turkey is that it is close to Asia and Europe, making it easier for international students to apply for a program in Turkey. Similar to other universities in different nations, universities in Turkey are very innovative and hold a significant position when it comes to global ranking. However, whether you are planning to continue a Bachelor’s degree, a Master’s program, or a Ph.D. degree in Turkey, make sure to check all the requirements of that specific course from their website. If you want expert consultancy services, consult our skilled and professional team at Dunya Consultants.

FAQs
Is study in Turkey worth it?
Yes, several universities in Turkey offer the most valuable programs to international students, making their careers stable.

Are there any of the cheapest universities in Turkey for international students?
Turkey has some of the quite popular universities that are affordable too, for example, Atlas University, Bahçeşehir University, etc.

How is education in Turkey for international students?
Turkey universities offer high-quality education with the most advanced teaching methods to international students.