Are you planning to study abroad at one of the best universities in the world? No doubt, there are lots of study destinations all around the world. However, the UK is one of the countries most preferred by Pakistani students when it comes to pursuing bachelor’s or master’s programs. The best thing about the United Kingdom is that it welcomes thousands of international students from around the world to stay and study. However, students will need to get a UK student visa to study there.

Furthermore, the application process for a UK study visa can be very tiring, especially when you are not aware of the right process to apply. But if you meet all UK student visa requirements without missing anything, the chances of your selection will automatically improve. Those who do not know the correct process to apply and which documents need to be submitted, reach out to our experts at Dunya Consultants and discuss everything in detail.

What is a Student Visa for UK?
Students who are willing to study here must apply for a UK student visa. For this, they will need to fill out an online visa application for UK from Pakistan. However, the visa required will depend on their age as well as the type of course they plan to pursue in the United Kingdom.

It is highly recommended to apply for a United Kingdom student visa application at least six months before starting your program. The UK study visa process usually takes approximately three weeks.

Types of UK Student Visa for International Students
There are three main types of UK study visa for international students that are as follows:

Sr. No	Student Visa Type	Who can Apply?
1	Student route visa (Tier 4 General student visa)	Those studying at a UK university course for more than six months or an English language course for more than eleven months.
2	Child Student visa	Those who are under 18
3	Short-term study visa	For English language courses that are less than twelve months
Eligibility Criteria for the United Kingdom Student Visa Application
As discussed earlier, the government of the UK provides a great chance for all international students to get admission to their desired program. However, before completing an online visa application for UK from Pakistan, you will have to check whether you are eligible to apply or not.

The eligibility criteria for a UK study visa from Pakistan are as follows:
To apply for England student visa, you must be at least sixteen years old
You must get good grades in English-language proficiency tests.
You have been provided admission to a full-time program from a certified university (which means the university should be an authorized Student Tier 4 sponsor).
Financial evidence proving you have sufficient money to fund yourself and pay for your program as living expenses in UK for students are somewhat high.
Documents Required for UK Student Visa
There are various UK study visa requirements you will have to fulfill to successfully apply. Here is a list of documents required for a UK student visa from Pakistan:

Your current or valid passport.
Every qualification mentioned in your CAS. Remember that if there are no qualifications mentioned in your CAS, you do not need to provide any.
Passport-sized colored images.
Those who have gotten an official financial sponsorship from the UK government need to submit a letter proving that the sponsor is allowing them to apply for a Tier 4 UK visa.
Proof that you have the required amount of funds available for tuition fees and living expenses in the UK for students, like personal bank statements or official loan letters.
ATAS (Academic Technology Approval Scheme) clearance certificate (if needed) for your UK visa application online.
If your parents are providing financial support, you must submit a letter from your legal guardians/parents stating that you have their consent to use the funds.
Medical Certificate of Tuberculosis test results is mandatory for Pakistani candidates/
Those who are less than eighteen years old at the time of applying for a UKVI visa application will have to submit a letter from their legal guardians/parents and also their birth or adoption certificate.
What is CAS Letter UK (Confirmation of Acceptance of Studies)?
According to UK student visa new rules 2024, a CAS letter is also required for UK study visa process. It is an electronic document that students will get from their university through email. This document is essential to proceed with their student visa UK application.

Furthermore, remember that, as discussed, the CAS letter is electronic, so students only have to mention the CAS reference number in their UK visa application from Pakistan. There is no need to submit a paper copy.

UK Study Visa Process
After completing all student visa requirements for UK from Pakistan, the next step is to finally apply for your United Kingdom student visa rather than a UK travel visa. The process to apply for a student visa for UK international students is as follows:

The first and foremost step is to get an offer letter for admission from a well-reputed UK university. You need to receive a CAS letter UK from your selected university.
Next, you need to apply for UK visa application online through the official UK visa website. You will have to fill the student visa application form correctly and pay the UK student visa fee from Pakistan.
Once you have submitted your online visa application, you will be asked to attend a UK visa biometrics appointment to provide your fingerprints and a picture at a local application center.
Gather all required documents, such as proof of funds, your CAS, a current passport, and passport-sized pictures. Depending on your individual circumstances, you might also need to submit extra documents.
If required, submit your English language proficiency test scores from a certified language test such as TOEFL or IELTS.
In a few cases, you might be asked to attend a UK visa appointment at your closest UK embassy or consulate.
During your UK study visa processing time, the authorities will review your visa application in detail and make a final decision. You might be asked to submit additional details or attend a visa interview if required.
After your Great Britain visa Application or student visa application is approved, you will receive a sticker on your valid passport. This will allow your entrance to the UK. Remember that the sticker is only valid for thirty days. You need to go to the UK within this time.
After reaching the United Kingdom, you have to collect your BRP (Biometric Residence Permit) from the post office stated in your visa decision letter. The Biometric Residence Permit has all essential info about your stay in the country.
UK Student Visa Fee
One of the most asked queries is about the UK student visa fee from Pakistan. The student visa fee for the UK from Pakistan is around 490 pounds. The UK insurance fees for international students of around £776 for a one-year program will also be added along with an extra fee of £388.

In addition, the price of a three-year study visa for the UK from Pakistan will be around £776*3, plus an extra fee of £388. Every student has to pay this student visa UK cost to receive their visa successfully.

Student Visa UK Processing Time
The UK visa processing time after biometrics will typically take around three weeks. Students will receive a decision about their online visa application within twenty-one days. It is highly recommended that all mandatory documents be submitted to avoid any delays.

Moreover, keep in mind that the UK student visa process takes some time, so it is highly suggested that you apply as soon as you receive the CAS letter from the university.

Conclusion
The United Kingdom has become one of the most popular study destinations for international students. Every year, thousands of students apply to various UK universities to pursue a higher education. To travel there, there are UK study visa requirements that need to be met to receive your UK student visa successfully. After completing your online visa application for UK from Pakistan, you will need to pay UK visa application fees. Furthermore, it is recommended to hire a consultant for UK student visa to prevent any chances of rejection. If you are searching for one, consult with our team of professionals today at Dunya Consultants!

FAQs
Can I work on a UK student visa in the country?
Yes, you can typically work full-time during summer holidays and part-time during your studies. There may be some strict rules on the sort of work you are allowed to do.

Can I take my children and spouse on a UK study visa from Pakistan?
According to UK student visa new rules 2024, you can only bring your spouse and children if you are studying either a research-based program, PhD or other doctorate degree.

How much is the UK study visa fee from Pakistan?
The UK visa price in Pakistan is around 490 pounds, including insurance fees of around £776 for a one-year program (and an extra fee of £388).

What are UK study visa requirements from Pakistan?
You will need a CAS letter from a licensed UK institution and sufficient financial resources to support yourself during your study.