The majority of Pakistani students may not know the MBBS full form. MBBS is a common term used for Bachelor of Medicine and Bachelor of Surgery. For students who are looking for an international country with the best career opportunities to pursue MBBS, the United Kingdom is the perfect option. In the past several years, MBBS in UK for Pakistani Students has become a top choice. Every year, hundreds of students struggle to get admission to top UK Medical universities.

In addition, an MBBS degree aims to provide medical students with the professional skills and knowledge to shine in their careers. The MBBS course duration in the UK is around four to six years. However, you will need to fill out the application correctly while applying. In case of any false info or details, there is a high chance of your admission being rejected. To get detailed guidance, book your free consultation with Dunya Consultants for study abroad.

What is MBBS in UK for International Students?
In the UK, the MBBS degree is also called MB BCh or MB ChB. This program is equivalent to a Bachelor of Medicine and Bachelor of Surgery at medical universities in the UK. Students will get practical exposure to modern medical technology and professional faculty.

Furthermore, these medical colleges are recognized by WHO, FAIMER, NMC, ECFMG, UNESCO, and WFME. Students will find plenty of career opportunities after completing their MBBS course subjects from a top-tier university in the UK.

Eligibility Requirements for MBBS Abroad for Pakistani Students
Currently, the trend of MBBS among Pakistani students in foreign countries is increasing. However, there are some eligibility requirements that everyone must meet to be eligible to apply. The eligibility criteria for MBBS in UK for international students are as follows:

You should be at least eighteen years old while applying for MBBS course subjects.
You should have studied Chemistry, Physics, and Biology as the main subjects in your high secondary school.
You have completed your higher secondary or equivalent twelfth exam with good grades.
You must have all the required documents to submit to admission authorities.
Depending on your selected UK medical college or university, you will have to pass tests such as the BMAT (BioMedical Admission Test) or UKCAT (UK Clinical Aptitude Test).
You must have at least eighty percent marks in grades ten and twelve (especially in Biology and Chemistry).
Course Duration for MBBS in UK for Pakistani Students
MBBS degree in the UK typically lasts between five to six years. However, there are some exceptions where it might be completed in around four years. The duration of MBBS in England for Pakistani students can differ by medical college or university.

That’s why it is highly recommended that you check with a particular university while applying. Furthermore, the practical or clinical duration is two years. Before that, every preclinical course has to be completed by the student.

MBBS in UK for Pakistani Students Requirements
The list of documents that need to be submitted by the candidate while applying to any of the UK medical universities is given below:

Statement of purpose (SOP)
Original transcripts and attested copies of your 10th and 12th grades
A recommendation letter from your professor of a past studied college or institute
Diploma certificate (if any)
Your updated CV or resume
Work experience (if any)
Evidence of funds proving to the university that you have enough funds to finance the course
Copy of UKCAT/ BMAT, IELTS scores
How to Apply for the Cheapest MBBS in UK for International Students?
Here is the step-by-step guide to applying for an MBBS in UK medical universities. Students must complete each step appropriately to increase their chances of admission to their selected university.

First, you will have to select one of the best medical universities in the UK to pursue your MBBS course.
Once selected, visit the official website of that particular university and complete an online application form.
After getting the approval letter from your university, pay the required fees.
Next, you have to wait for confirmation letters, interviews, and invitation letters.
Moving forward, you will have to apply for a UK student visa (Tier 4) to stay and study in the UK.
Once you have received your student visa from admission authorities, you should arrange your flight tickets.
Make a list of all mandatory documents you have to take with you during your study abroad period.
After this, you are ready to travel to the United Kingdom and pursue your MBBS degree.
Cost of MBBS in UK for Pakistani Students
The MBBS fee in UK for Pakistani students can be pretty expensive, especially for Pakistani students. The tuition fees for international students for an MBBS degree can be somewhere between £38,000 to £52,000 per year, based on your selected university.

In addition, students should also plan for living expenses, which can differ from one student to another but normally range from £1,200 to £1,500 every month. These living prices include food, travel, accommodation, and other personal costs.

Scholarships for Pakistani students in UK for MBBS
Are you searching for foreign MBBS scholarships for Pakistani students? There are different MBBS scholarships for international students that can assist them financially. Let’s discuss about scholarship for MBBS students to study abroad below:

Chevening Scholarships
Commonwealth Scholarships
British Council Scholarships
Hulk York Medical School International Scholarship
Global Health Future Leaders Scholarship
Imperial College Faculty of Medicine Scholarship
Cheapest MBBS Universities in UK for International Students
Some of the best medical colleges in UK for Pakistani students are as follows:

Glasgow University
University of Oxford (Medical Science Division)
University College London (UCL Medical School)
University of Cambridge
Brighton and Sussex Medical School
Peninsula Medical School (Plymouth University)
University of New Castle
Queen Mary University London
Hull York Medical School
Imperial College School of Medicine
Conclusion
MBBS in UK for Pakistani Students is a golden chance to receive high quality education. The United Kingdom provides a proper research environment as well as the best faculty for international students. Students who are qualified to apply for MBBS subjects need to fulfill all requirements in order to be admitted to one of the best medical universities in the UK. Moreover, there are different MBBS scholarships for Pakistani students in the UK to help them financially. If you still have any queries about how to apply correctly, contact our experts at Dunya Consultants. They will help you in everything.

FAQs
After MBBS which course is best for me?
You can pursue post graduate courses after MBBS in UK like Doctor of Medicine (MD), Master of Surgery (MS), Diploma of National Board (DNB), etc.

What is MBBS in UK for Pakistani students’ fee structure?
MBBS fee in UK for Pakistani students varies from one university to the other but typically ranges from £38,000 to £52,000.

Is there any MBBS scholarship in UK for Pakistani students?
Yes, there are different scholarship programs available for international students, such as Chevening Scholarships and Commonwealth Scholarships.

How can I apply for UK MBBS scholarships for Pakistani students?
You should fill out the scholarship form appropriately before submitting it. To get further guidance, book your free consultation with our experts at Dunya Consultants.