Studying in the UK has become popular among international students over the past several years. Thousands of students apply to get admission to an authorized UK university each year. However, they have to meet all requirements to increase their chances of acceptance. In addition to all other documents, students will also need to prove their proficiency in the English language. That’s where the Duolingo English Test (DET) option comes in.

There are lots of universities in the United Kingdom that accept the Duolingo English Test for the English language. This test is the best alternative for those students who are not willing to take other English language proficiency tests such as IELTS or TOEFL. Furthermore, DET is now gaining popularity, and students prefer it over IELTS or PTE. If you want to get more details about how to apply to Duolingo accepted universities in UK, you can book your consultation with our team at Dunya Consultants!

What is the Duolingo English Language Test?
The Duolingo English test is taken to measure the English writing, reading, speaking, and listening skills of students. It is a standardized English proficiency test, just like IELTS or TOEFL, that students can take online after completing the Duolingo English test application. There are many public universities in England that are accepting DET.

In addition, you will get one hour to complete this online test. The test analyzes the skills of students by giving different sections. For example, describe a given picture, write missing letters from a section, find real English words from wrong ones, and write the line to which you listen.

Duolingo Accepted Universities in UK for Undergraduate Programs
There are lots of UK universities that give admission to international students if they have the minimum Duolingo English Test score required. First of all, you have to make a Duolingo English Test booking to take this test. After getting results, you can apply to any of your selected universities for higher education.

The list of the UK universities that accept the Duolingo English Test for undergraduate programs is as follows:

London College of Contemporary Arts (LCCA)
Imperial College London
Leeds Beckett University
London School of Economics and Political Science (LSE)
St Mary’s University London
University of Lincoln
University of Huddersfield
Glasgow Caledonian University
University of Warwick
University of Bolton
Duolingo Accepted Universities in UK for Postgraduate Programs
In addition to undergraduate programs, some universities in the United Kingdom also accept Duolingo English tests for postgraduate programs. Whether you want to study MBA, MS, or PhD, you can simply apply with this DET.

Here is a list of universities that accept the Duolingo English Test for postgraduate programs:

London Business School
International College Portsmouth
Hult International Business School London
Royal Holloway, University of London
Solent University Southampton
Cardiff University
University of Derby
University of East Anglia
University of York
University of Leicester
 Why Should You Choose the Duolingo English Test for the UK?

The Duolingo English Language Test has become quite popular among students because of its affordability, convenience, and higher chances of acceptance by UK universities. Let’s discuss below why you must consider Duolingo over other English proficiency tests:

You can take this Duolingo test from the convenience of your home without going anywhere.
This test is more reasonable as compared to other English standardized tests.
It adjusts according to the proficiency level of students, making it brief yet comprehensive.
You can get your Duolingo test score within forty-eight hours.
What are the Alternatives for the Duolingo English Language Test?
Those who are searching for the best alternatives for DET need not worry about anything. Some of the best alternatives accepted by UK universities instead of Duolingo are given below:

IELTS
PTE – minimum 50 – 60
TOEFL – minimum 90
Cambridge English test – minimum 200
Students can take any of these tests according to their interests and convenience. However, it is highly recommended to choose the Duolingo test because of its higher acceptance chances in the UK to prove your English capabilities. Furthermore, the Duolingo English test fee is reasonable, so you can easily book whenever you want to.

Duolingo English Test Fee in Pakistan
The Duolingo English Test price is approximately fifty-nine dollars in Pakistan. This fee is much lower than the IELTS and PTE Tests. Remember that Duolingo can only be utilized for educational institutions, while PTE and IELTS Tests are appropriate for immigration purposes.

Furthermore, DET’s affordable price is due to its online nature. This means that no extra staff or testing centers are required.

Conclusion
If you are someone who is not willing to take IELTS or TOEFL English language proficiency tests, you can go for the Duolingo English test, also known as DET. The good news about studying in the UK is that there are a lot of universities that are providing admission with this test. Students just have to make sure they get the required Duolingo test score. All information about this test is already available on Duolingo’s official website. Another great thing about the Duolingo English test is that you can study undergraduate as well as postgraduate programs with this test. If you still have any queries regarding studying abroad in the United Kingdom, contact our expert team at Dunya Consultants.

FAQs
Is Duolingo easier than IELTS?
Yes, Duolingo is much easier than IELTS as it involves basic vocabulary and grammar skills. On the other hand, IELTS demands a much deeper understanding of English.

Can I get a UK student visa with a Duolingo English test?
You can apply for a student visa even with the Duolingo English language test. You will just need to submit all the required documents as requested by the admission authorities.

What is the minimum Duolingo English Test score for studying in the UK?
You should get at least a 105 Duolingo test score to get admission to the UK university. This score may differ based on the university and the degree you select.

How can I apply for the Duolingo English test application?
Visit the Duolingo official website to register yourself to take this test. To register, you need to sign up for the account and pay the fee. Once paid, you can take the test within twenty-one days at any time.