Are you a Pakistani student who is willing to pursue higher education in Canada? If yes, then we are here to guide you. Canada is one of the most popular countries in terms of providing high-quality education to students. Not only does the country have some of the highly ranked universities, but the employment opportunities students can get after completing their degrees here is something that must be considered. However, you will need to get a student visa to study at Canadian universities.

Completing an online study visa application for Canada from Pakistan is one of the most important steps to receiving a student visa. In addition, a student visa in Canada is also known as a study permit. If you are interested in studying abroad in Canada but are struggling with the Canada visa process from Pakistan, our expert team at Dunya Consultants will help you with everything.

When do you Need to Apply for a Visa to Canada from Pakistan?
There are several Canada visa types for Pakistani citizens, but for students, getting a student visa is a must. A study visa is issued by CIC (Citizen and Immigration Canada), which allows them to study at their selected colleges or institutions in Canada. You will need to apply for a visa for Canada only if:

The duration of your chosen course is less than 6 months, but you plan to study another course after its completion.
The duration of your selected course is six months or more.
However, during this period, you will have to take care of the following things mentioned below:

Make satisfactory progress in your chosen program or course.
Remain registered in the program.
Eligibility Criteria for Canadian Visa for Pakistani Students
Before filling out the visa application form for Canada Visa, Pakistani students have to fulfill specific eligibility criteria as mentioned below:

You will need to get an acceptance letter from the DLI (Designated Learning Institution).
Designated Learning Institutions are schools approved by a territorial or a provincial government for all international students.
To get this, you need to research Canadian universities and the programs they provide. Once it gets accepted, the university will give you an acceptance letter.
Make sure you do not have any previous criminal record.
Documents required for Canada Student Visa
The student visa for Canada from Pakistan requirements 2024 is as follows:

A Valid Passport
Acceptance letter from DLI (Designated Learning Institution)
A clear criminal history certificate
Your latest bank statement to provide you with sufficient financial resources
A medical exam
English proficiency test scores (like IELTS, TOEFL)
How to Apply for Canadian Visa from Pakistan?
The step-by-step guide to applying for student visa Canada online is given below:

First, you need to create an account on the official IRCC site.
Once created, the next step is to sign in to your IRCC account.
Complete the online visa application form for Canada to Pakistan and provide your details.
Upload all required documents asked by them.
After that, you will need to pay the student visa application fee of around 150 CAD.
Once all these steps are completed, check the status of your application daily.
Canada Student Visa Fee from Pakistan
To apply visa for Canada, you will need to pay charges of around 150 CAD. Based on individual situations, Canadian officers will allow students to pay their fees online at a visa application center in Pakistan or via a bank transfer.

Furthermore, you will also have to pay around 85 CAD as biometric fees for a Canada study visa. Once you have paid, you have to go through the Canada visa processing time after Biometrics Pakistan.

Conclusion
Canada has some of the best educational universities throughout the world. This is one of the primary reasons why thousands of students from all around the world travel to Canada to get higher education. One of the primary requirements is to get a Canadian student visa. For this, you will have to fill out an online study visa application for Canada from Pakistan and submit all required documents without missing any. Furthermore, there is a proper process to follow for a Canada visa application online in Pakistan in 2024 that you should be aware of. To get detailed information, it is highly recommended that you book your consultation with our team at Dunya Consultants.

FAQs
How can I apply for a Canada student visa from Pakistan?
You can apply for a student visa for Canada from Pakistan either on paper or online. Those who apply on paper need to submit their documents at a visa application center.

How much is the student visa fee for Canada from Pakistan?
You will have to pay a non-refundable Canada student visa fee from Pakistan of around 150 CAD and complete the online visa application form correctly.

Which universities in Canada are best for Pakistani students?
Some of the best universities are the University of Alberta, the University of Ottawa, McGill University, the University of Waterloo, Western University, and many more.

Is there any age restriction for getting a Canadian student visa?
No, there isn’t an age restriction for a study visa in Canada. However, people above forty years old should provide a valid reason for this gap in their education.