It is a dream of lots of Pakistani medical students to complete their MBBS programs in an international country. However, the tuition fees and living costs of studying abroad often become a hurdle. If you are also facing the same issue, here is a solution for you. Germany has some of the best medical colleges that allow you to get admission at a reasonable tuition fee. This has made MBBS in Germany relatively easier for Pakistani students.

Students just need to do proper research and make a list of all German medical universities. In addition, Pakistani students have to pass eligibility criteria before applying to a specific university. It is essential to hire MBBS abroad consultants so that you can get detailed advice on Germany admission process. What are you still waiting for? Book your free consultation today with Dunya Consultants and apply in the best way possible.

Duration of MBBS Study in Germany
The Course Duration to study medicine in Germany normally takes around six years and three months, along with a compulsory internship. Let’s have a discussion about how medical courses in Germany for international students go:

Pre-Clinical Training
The preclinical stage lasts around two years. It includes general topics and concepts of medicine and ends with the final examination for Physicians.

Clinical Stage
The clinical duration lasts around three years. This phase includes core and important concepts of medicine, specifically in hospitals. It ends with a final examination known as Arztliche Prufung.

Practical Year
The practical year lasts around one year and three months. During this duration, medical students practice in hospitals. Once students have completed their practical year, they need to pass the final stage examination. After that, they get a permit to work as entirely professional doctors.

Eligibility Requirements to Study Medicine in Germany for International Students
To get admission to top medical universities in Germany, you have to fulfill eligibility requirements before applying. The eligibility criteria to study medical courses in Germany for international students are given below:

Your age should not be over twenty-five years.
You should have completed FSC with a minimum of fifty percent marks in Physics, Biology, English, and Chemistry.
You have to provide your German language score.
You need to pass IELTS or TOEFL to secure admission to German medical universities for international students where subjects are taught in English.
You must get a minimum of seventy percent marks in your HSC boards from a certified board of examination.
Documents Required for German Medical Universities for International Students
The list of all documents required for MBBS study in Germany for international students is as follows:

A valid passport with a validity of at least eighteen months
Birth certificate
Passport size pictures
School leaving certificate
Grade 10th certificate
Grade 12th marks sheet
Bank receipt for tuition fee (1st year) of your medical university
An acceptance letter
Medical fitness approval certificate
Authorization of every document from the German Embassy
Admission Process to Study MBBS in Germany
The admission process to apply for medical universities in Germany for Pakistani students is given below:

Before applying for MBBS, you have to take the NEET entrance exam.
Once you pass the NEET exams, you will have to complete an online application form provided by your medical university.
You will receive a confirmation letter from the university within fifteen working days. You will also get a greeting letter from a German medical college.
Get a printout of your application form. Submit a scanned copy of the filled-out application form to your university along with all mandatory documents mentioned above.
Make sure you submit all documents before the application deadline.
Once the university has confirmed your documents, you will either receive an acceptance letter or a rejection letter based on the admission officers’ decision.
After receiving the acceptance letter, you will have to pay your initial fee deposit. This fee deposit letter will be delivered to them.
After your visa application is accepted, you can apply for a German student visa. The university will mail you an invitation letter.
Cost of MBBS Education in Germany for International Students
There are some free medical universities in Germany for international students that require no tuition costs for bachelor’s or PhD courses in public universities. To get admission, students have to pay a small administrative university fee of approximately €150–250 each semester.

On the other hand, there is Germany university fees for international students with private degrees. Students have to pay annual tuition charges between €30,000 – €35,000.

Germany MBBS Scholarships for Pakistani Students
Scholarships are also given to Pakistani students by some German medical universities to help deserving students financially. Some of the best scholarship programs for MBBS in Germany are listed below:

Deutschland Stipendium National Scholarship Program
DAAD (Deutscher Akademischer Austauschdienst)
Badden-Wurttemberg
The Friedrich Ebert Stiftung Scholarship
Erasmus Scholarship Programs
SBW Berlin Scholarship
Best German Medical Universities for International Students
Here is a German university list to complete MBBS programs:

Charite – Universitatsmedizin Berlin
Saarland University
RWTH Aachen University
Cologne University
Ruhr-Universitat Bochum
Greifswald University
Heinrich Heine University Dusseldorf
Hannover Medical School
Conclusion
MBBS in Germany for Pakistani Students has become a growing trend all over the country. There are lots of medical universities in Germany for Pakistani students providing admission on specific criteria. Those who cannot afford to pay tuition fees for MBBS can also apply for various scholarship programs, as discussed earlier. If you want to increase the chances of your admission to Germany, make sure you submit all documents while applying without missing any. Furthermore, the fee to study in Germany is relatively low compared to other countries, so that’s an additional plus point. To get more info, you can contact our team at Dunya Consultants.

FAQs
Can I study medical courses in Germany after the 12th?
Yes, you can apply for medicine courses in Germany after completing your 12th. You will need to submit your 12th-grade mark sheet.

How to study medicine in Germany in English for international students?
Make a list of all German medical universities that are teaching medical courses in English. Then, apply to your chosen medical college.

What is Germany university fees for international students to study MBBS?
Public universities in Germany allow students to study without tuition, while private colleges charge an annual tuition fee between € 30,000 and €35,000.

Are top medical universities in Germany for international students worth it?
Education in Germany for international students has always been a top priority. Germany has some of the best medical universities, providing high-quality education.