Australia has always been on the priority list of international students when it comes to studying abroad. The universities in this country are famous not just because of the best education system but also for offering many bachelor’s and Master’s programs even without IELTS. However, some students may find Australia a bit costly compared to other countries. There is no doubt a significant difference between tuition fees of public and private universities, but there are some of the cheapest universities in Australia for international students without IELTS as well.

In addition, the semester fee of public universities is more reasonable as compared to private institutions. Australia also provides many financial aid options and scholarships to help international students cover their studies and living expenses. If you are not aware of the reasonable universities there, book your consultancy with our team at Dunya Consultants, and they will guide you about everything.

List of the Cheapest Universities in Australia for International Students Without IELTS
Some students get disheartened after checking the higher study education costs and IELTS requirements for bachelor’s or master’s programs. If you are one of them, remember that in addition to costly universities in Australia, some of the best universities in Australia admit international students if they meet eligibility criteria.

Some of the cheapest universities in Australia for international students are as follows: 

Sr No.	University Name
1	Swinburne University of Technology
2	The University of Queensland
3	The University of Adelaide
4	The University of Southern Queensland
5	Bond University
6	The University of South Australia
7	Macquarie University
8	The University of New South Wales
Swinburne University of Technology
The Swinburne University of Technology is one of the leading universities in Australia currently. According to US News, it ranks number one in Australia.

Those who are searching for the cheapest university in Australia for an MBA, computer science, engineering, business, management, and design without IELTS should consider this university. Furthermore, the university is famous for its advanced research and for providing the best education to international students.

The University of Queensland
The University of Queensland was made in the year 1909. It is included in the top five teaching & research institutes in Australia. The university has the best campuses with all facilities, grounds, as well as labs.

The admission officers of this university prefer students with good IELTS score to confirm they are proficient in English. However, they also give admission even without IELTS. The University of Queensland campus is home to over fifty thousand students, including many international students from more than 130 countries.

The University of Adelaide
The University of Adelaide (a famous research institute) was made in 1874 and is located in South Australia. It is included in the list of Australia’s eight most affordable universities. If the admission officer finds a student’s application interesting, he can give him admission without IELTS.

Students who select this university can choose among nine postgraduate research degrees and more than 150 undergraduate courses. The institute has made a contract with the State and Federal Governments and the University of South Australia to establish another university in the future.

The University of Southern Queensland
The University of Southern Queensland is famous for its engaging environment and student-focused approach to learning and teaching. It is one of the top universities in Australia, with a high acceptance rate (around 69%).

This is because the admission process of this institute is organized in a selective way. In addition, the University of Southern Queensland will accept your English proficiency either if you are from an English-speaking state or have completed your past study course in the English language.

Bond University
One of the cheap universities in Australia for masters and bachelors in Australia that allows admission of international students without IELTS is Bond University. This university is a self-accredited institute by TEQSA. It is the first private (not-for-profit) institute that is well-known on an international level.

Moreover, it is currently home to more than four thousand students, including international students from over ninety nations worldwide. Students can prove their English proficiency by showing either a good score on PTE Academic Tests or a document showing that they have completed their secondary education in an English-medium institute.

The University of South Australia
The University of South Australia is a public research university located in South Australia. It is a cheap fees university in Australia made in the year 1991. Students who are willing to get admission here can select from over two-hundred graduate and undergraduate degree programs along with many other programs too.

To get admission into The University of South Australia, students have the freedom to prove English proficiency in different ways other than IELTS (like PTE or CAE). At present, its campus is a home to more than thirty-seven-thousand students including over five-thousand international students.

Macquarie University
Macquarie University is a public research university located in Sydney. It was established in 1964, and its main campus is the Wallumattagal Campus. Every year, the university gives around ten thousand degrees to local & international students.

In addition, students can choose from over 100 undergraduate and graduate majors, 80 postgraduate programs, and 4 research master’s programs. Despite not having IELTS, students can show Cambridge Advanced English or other relevant certificates.

The University of New South Wales
The University of New South Wales (UNSW) was established in 1949. Since then, the university has been constantly improving and changing lives in Australia and worldwide. Hundreds of international students from different countries apply for admission to this institute to continue their higher studies.

In addition to this, the University of New South Wales comes at first rank and is attended by beginner founders. Even if you have not passed IELTS, you can still get admission to your desired programs here. In case you got above satisfactory grades in English subjects in your last degree, you can show them while applying.

Conclusion
The cheapest universities in Australia for international students without IELTS provide the best combination of quality education as well as affordable fees. If you consider the universities mentioned above for your higher education, your wish to study in Australia at a reasonable price will be fulfilled. This list of universities in Australia has earned huge popularity because of their advanced teaching methods and because they offer the most demanding programs to students. However, it is very important to meet their eligibility criteria if you want to get admission. For those who need clarification about how to apply, our skilled consultants at Dunya Consultants are always there to help you.

FAQs
Are there any low-cost universities in Australia?
Yes, there are many cheap universities in Australia that allow international students to enroll in their preferred programs.

Which top universities in Australia offer programs without IELTS?
There are many affordable universities in Australia that offer programs without IELTS, such as the University of Southern Queensland, Swinburne University of Technology, and the University of New South Wales.

Can I find cheap universities in Australia for computer science?
Yes, there are lots of universities in the state that currently provide degree programs for computer science.