While applying for a student UK Visa, one of the most important things to consider is that you have sufficient money to pay for your living costs and course fees. Remember that there are very strict policies about bank statements when it comes to UK visas. Your bank statement should be issued by a UKVI-accepted bank, which means it should be regulated by the legal governing body in your country.

To make sure that you have the proper documents and funds, every UK university will ask for this proof before issuing a CAS to you. Even though the Home Office has no set bank balance, you only need to satisfy them by covering your living expenses independently without using any public funds. To get detailed guidance about bank statements for UK visas, consult with our most skilled and professional staff at Dunya Consultants.

Overview
Visa applicants might be confused about how to show enough funds. The Home Office has made it compulsory for consular officers to ensure applicants’ income or funds are adequate to meet their expenses during their stay in the United Kingdom.

Before providing a bank statement for a UK student visa from Pakistan, keep in mind that you have to give detailed answers to the following info as given below:

·    For those who are earning, details about how much you earn yearly.

·    Dates you are planning to travel

·    The estimated expenses for your trip

·    Where will you live during your trip

·    Your present home address & how long you are living there

Information to Include in Bank Statement for UK Visa
While submitting an acceptable bank statement for a UK student visa application, make sure the bank account belongs to you or your parents/legal guardians. For those who use a joint account for transactions, you or your parents should be named on the account.

In addition to this, your bank statement should include:

·    Your account number

·    The amount of money present currently

·    Be an electronic record or on official stationery

·    Should be printed or electronic

·    Date & Currency

·    Details about the bank (like its name, logo, and contact details)

How do you fulfill your bank statement requirement for a UK Visa?
As discussed, submitting bank statements to show your financial condition and monthly salary is very important. However, if you deposit a large amount of money other than your monthly income, it must be excluded from the bank statement.

Furthermore, if you want to avoid a bank statement UK visa refusal, you must make sure that your bank statement fulfils these below-given requirements:

·    As the UK is quite expensive, a daily budget of around £100 – £150 per day should be considered.

·    The monthly income most cover half of the visitor’s expected tour expenses.

·    Funds must be twice the estimated UK trip expenses.

Is 3 3-month bank statement enough for a UK visa?
Whenever you ask for a bank statement from your legal bank to submit for your visa application process, keep in mind that all the funds in your bank should not be held for more than 28 days.

Those who are a self-financing student can also provide Certificates of Deposit or other Financial Statements (shares, overdrafts, bonds, credit cards) other than bank statement to show UKVI that money is available for 28 days.

Conclusion
One of the most important requirements to apply for a UK visa is providing a right bank statement. Applicants will be asked to show cash in their bank account and provide details of all transactions to avoid any kind of refusal into the UK. Also, it is crucial to submit a bank statement for a UK visa with all the requirements and details mentioned earlier. Still, if you are confused about a bank statement, book your consultancy today with Dunya Consultants and get your queries solved to increase chances of your visa application acceptance.

FAQs
Does UK embassy verify bank statement for student visa?
Yes, every UK university checks your bank statement to ensure that you have enough funds to cover your course fees and living expenses.

How much bank statement for uk student visa from Pakistan?
There is not any fixed amount for a UK student visa. You just need to prove you have enough resources/money to fund your trip in UK.

Is there any minimum bank statement for UK student visa?
No, a minimum bank statement is not required for a student visa to the UK. It depends on the period you plan to live there and your course fees.