If you are not a UK resident but still want to register your company there, this guide is for you. The process of UK company registration is not as complex as people think it is. For those who want to start a business as a separate legal unit in the country, one of the best options for them is to establish a private Ltd. company. You can also set up limited company UK as a partnership or a sole trader.

Furthermore, if international students want to register a business in the United Kingdom, they must first apply for a PSW visa. Remember that it is not possible to start a business with a Tier 4 or student visa. It takes around twenty-four hours to set up a UK company online and approximately four weeks to register a branch of an already-registered company. To get further details about this, keep reading below.

Types of Business Structure in the UK
There are several types of legal business structures you can select for UK company registration. Make sure you choose one that aligns perfectly with your requirements and the kind of work you want to do. These business types include:

Partnership
Sole trader (self-employed)
Limited liability company
Limited liability partnership
Can International Students Register Company in UK after Studying?
International students who are living in the United Kingdom with a Tier 4 Student Visa should keep in mind that they are not allowed for UK company registration while studying any course.

If they want to start a company there, they first need to get a post-study work visa (PSW). As soon as they receive PSW successfully, they are no longer considered as students and can finally set up limited company UK.

Requirements for Business Registration in UK
You may have heard that there are so many requirements for ltd. company registration in UK but that is not the truth. The chances of successfully registering your business in the UK increase once you look at the required documents and how the process works. Let’s discuss the requirements in detail below:

Minimum sixteen years of age
A name for your company (this includes checking company name availability UK)
A UK-registered address
 Minimum one shareholder (it can be a person or another company)
Minimum one director (this individual does not have to be a UK citizen)
Valid evidence of ID as well as address.
In addition, it is not a legal condition to have a shareholder or director citizen in the UK for company registration gov UK. However, most banks will ask whether you have resident shareholders or directors before opening a UK business bank account for your company.

How to register company in UK online?
There is a proper method to register a limited company in UK that you must follow correctly. Setting up a business in the UK needs proper attention and careful understanding. To successfully open a limited company gov UK, follow the steps given below:

Search for Business Name Availability UK
Choosing the correct company name is very important for your brand identity. Make sure your selected name is unique and not registered before. You can check the availability of names before proceeding to register a business name UK.

Fill Out the Online Application Form
Once you have finalized your company name, you will have to complete the online form by providing your personal as well as company details. After entering details, head towards the checkout page and pay the charges.

Upload your Proof of Address and ID
After making the payment, you will need to upload your proof of address and ID to your account. Once you are done uploading, your business incorporation will be filed instantly. After that, you will receive documents of your company incorporation within one or two business days.

Open a Business Bank Account in the UK
It is highly crucial to have a UK business bank account for managing the finances of your business. For a non-UK resident, there are many business banking providers that can help you open your bank account.

What is the Cost of Registering a Company UK?
The UK company registration cost will vary based on the structure of the business you are planning to use and how you are thinking of proceeding. However, it costs around £40 for business registration in UK by post.

Approximately £12 is required to register a limited company online in the United Kingdom. Remember that you will need to pay around £50 for every extra class you want to cover with the trademark.

Benefits of Business Registration in UK
Some of the major advantages of registering a company in the UK are as follows:

A UK-registered company helps you to increase the global outreach of your business. Every business incorporated in the country can sell to customers throughout the world.
A UK-registered business gives international credibility to your company. UK businesses are highly honored all around the world.
Setting up a company in the United Kingdom provides access to some of the best business and software tools in the world.
Moreover, a registered limited company in the UK also provides access to business banking in United States Dollars, British Pounds, and Euros.
Conclusion
As a non-UK resident, registering a business there is quite an easy and simple process if you are aware of the right method or process. If you want to register a company in UK, make sure you meet all requirements as mentioned earlier. The two most important things to consider are registered business address UK and business name availability. Furthermore, international students staying in the country on student visas cannot set up their own company there as long as they get a PSW visa. I hope that the info as mentioned above will be helpful for you. To get free consultation services regarding studying abroad, contact our experts at Dunya Consultants.

FAQs
How long does it take to register a company in the UK?
You can register a company in the UK within twenty-four hours. You have to fill out an online form with the correct details.

Can foreigners register a company in the UK?
Yes, foreigners can do UK company registration both online and by post. All they have to do is meet defined requirements.

What are the costs involved in registering a UK company?
Company incorporation as well as registration fees are a must to pay for setting up your company in the United Kingdom. The prices depend on your business type.

What documents are needed for UK company registration?
You will need a registered business address and name to move forward with business registration in the UK. You also need to provide proof of your ID.