Important Note:
This article is intended solely for informational purposes. Please be aware that Dunya Consultants does not offer ESOL courses or provide assistance with related visa services.

For those who do not know ESOL, it is used in the United Kingdom to teach English to individuals, foreign students, and migrants. Getting an ESOL qualification shows you have good English writing, speaking, reading, and listening skills. International students planning to improve their English skills by joining an ESOL course will need to get ESOL visa UK.

However, our experts at Dunya Consultants do not recommend international students apply for ESOL language courses for many reasons. First of all, this short-term visa does not allow you to be admitted to any UK university. You can just apply to colleges in the country. Furthermore, students cannot even work in the United Kingdom without this visa. To get more details about the UK ESOL language course, here is a detailed guide.

UK ESOL Language Course visa 
What is ESOL Language Course UK?
ESOL stands for English for speakers of other languages. Generally, UK ESOL language courses are for students who are not good at speaking or listening to English. There are different kinds of ESOL courses, ranging from beginner level to expert or professional level.

Furthermore, these courses depend on the National Curriculum Levels of the UK school system. The ESOL exam system follows either the Qualifications and Credit Framework or the National Qualifications Framework (QCF/NQF).

Is an ESOL UK visa for International Students a Good Choice?
The ESOL visa ratio is much less than that of the UK student visa. This is because a normal student visa has much more benefits than ESOL. Most experts do not suggest applying for this visa, especially if you are looking to work part-time or are planning to get admission to any university.

Let’s discuss below what are the limitations of a UK ESOL language course visa:

You cannot study at a state-funded school.
You cannot extend your ESOL visa.
You cannot change your course or study any other course in the UK.
You cannot do any business or job (either paid or unpaid work).
You cannot bring dependents or family members with you on this visa.
You cannot apply for State Pension or other advantages (public funds).
ESOL Language Course Visa Eligibility Criteria
As mentioned earlier, opting for a UK ESOL visa is not a good decision. It has not been a popular choice among students, but still, if anybody wants to apply for a UK 1-year ESOL language course, he/she needs to be eligible. The eligibility criteria for ESOL qualification are as follows:

You should be at least sixteen years old.
Your ESOL course should be conducted at a qualified institution.
You have been allowed to take an English language course that lasts for a minimum of six months and a maximum of eleven months (not including other subjects).
You have enough money to cover your living expenses and purchase your return ticket.
You have sufficient resources to support yourself financially without getting help from relatives or public funds.
UK ESOL Visa Requirements
To apply for an ESOL visa UK, there are some documents you need to prepare beforehand. Remember that any fake or missing documents will result in your visa rejection. The list of documents required to apply for an ESOL visa is as follows:

A valid passport with an empty page to attach your visa.
You must provide proof that you can cover expenses yourself during your journey, such as payslips or bank statements for the past six months.
Provide proof of where you plan to stay and your travel plans.
Proof that you have paid your UK ESOL language course fees or have sufficient resources to pay them.
An acceptance letter from your educational institution with the course duration and name.
How to Apply for an ESOL Language Course Visa?
After you have completed all your documents, the next step is to apply. Students can apply almost three months before their trip to the United Kingdom. The process for ESOL visa apply online is mentioned below:

Choose the ESOL language course and institution you want to apply for.
The next step is to prepare all required documents as mentioned above. Make sure you prepare every document appropriately.
Once your documents are completed, the next step is to submit your application online.
Schedule your visa interview if required. Practice commonly asked questions and respond appropriately.
Once you have successfully passed the interview, you can receive your visa and begin planning your study abroad.
What are the ESOL language course UK fees?
The ESOL course fees in the UK will differ based on the course provider they choose. ESOL courses cost approximately £210 per term, including ESOL exam fees of around £30. However, there are some funding options available that are appropriate for your background and current circumstances.

Conclusion
ESOL courses are taught to international students in the UK who want to improve their English skills. Students can apply for ESOL visas in the UK directly from their home country. However, students will have to check whether they are meeting UK ESOL language course visa requirements before applying. When it comes to recommending an ESOL language course visa, most experts do not suggest you apply. This is due to the limitations an ESOL UK visa has. Still, if you are confused about whether or not to choose this, book your free consultation today with our best team at Dunya Consultants.

FAQs
What are the six levels of ESOL?
The six different levels of ESOL language courses include pre-entry, entry 1, entry 2, entry 3, level 1, and level 2.

What is the ESOL test for the UK?
The ESOL test checks your skills in communicating in English in everyday situations. It includes writing, reading, listening, and speaking English.

Is ESOL equivalent to GCSE?
Levels one and two of ESOL qualifications are almost equivalent to GCSE English Language. However, many employers and universities overlook this fact.

Are there any ESOL accepted universities in UK?
Yes, there are some universities that accept ESOL. But you cannot get admission to a UK university with a UK ESOL visa. Only student visas are accepted for admission.